Cleanup InfluxQL reference in Enterprise 1.9 (#2938)
influxdata/docs-v2: content/enterprise_influxdb/v1.9/query_language/internals.md

---
title: InfluxQL internals reference
description: Read about the implementation of InfluxQL.
menu:
  enterprise_influxdb_1_9:
    name: InfluxQL internals
    weight: 91
    parent: InfluxQL
---

> ## Query Engine Internals

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> Read here about the implementation of InfluxQL
> to help develop an intuitive sense for how
> results will be processed and how to create efficient queries.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Learn about the implementation of InfluxQL to understand how
results are processed and how to create efficient queries.
```

> The life cycle of a query looks like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Query life cycle
```

1. InfluxQL query string is tokenized and then parsed into an abstract syntax
   tree (AST). This is the code representation of the query itself.

2. The AST is passed to the `QueryExecutor` which directs queries to the
   appropriate handlers. For example, queries related to meta data are executed
   by the meta service and `SELECT` statements are executed by the shards
   themselves.

3. The query engine then determines the shards that match the `SELECT`
   statement's time range. From these shards, iterators are created for each
   field in the statement.

4. Iterators are passed to the emitter which drains them and joins the resulting
   points. The emitter's job is to convert simple time/value points into the
   more complex result objects that are returned to the client.

### Understanding iterators

> Iterators are at the heart of the query engine. They provide a simple interface
> for looping over a set of points. For example, this is an iterator over Float
> points:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Iterators  provide a simple interface for looping over a set of points.
For example, this is an iterator over Float points:
```

    CreateIterator(opt *IteratorOptions) (Iterator, error)
}
```

The `IteratorOptions` provide arguments about field selection, time ranges,
and dimensions that the iterator creator can use when planning an iterator.
The `IteratorCreator` interface is used at many levels such as the `Shards`,
`Shard`, and `Engine`. This allows optimizations to be performed when applicable
such as returning a precomputed `COUNT()`.

Iterators aren't just for reading raw data from storage though. Iterators can be
composed so that they provided additional functionality around an input
iterator. For example, a `DistinctIterator` can compute the distinct values for
each time window for an input iterator. Or a `FillIterator` can generate
additional points that are missing from an input iterator.

This composition also lends itself well to aggregation. For example, a statement
such as this:

```sql
SELECT MEAN(value) FROM cpu GROUP BY time(10m)
```

In this case, `MEAN(value)` is a `MeanIterator` wrapping an iterator from the
underlying shards. However, if we can add an additional iterator to determine
the derivative of the mean:

```
SELECT DERIVATIVE(MEAN(value), 20m) FROM cpu GROUP BY time(10m)

> ```

Reviewer: ~~~suggestion
```sql
SELECT DERIVATIVE(MEAN(value), 20m) FROM cpu GROUP BY time(10m)
```
~~~

> ### Understanding cursors

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Cursors
```

A **cursor** identifies data by shard in tuples (time, value) for a single series (measurement, tag set and field). The cursor trasverses data stored as a log-structured merge-tree and handles deduplication across levels, tombstones for deleted data, and merging the cache (Write Ahead Log). A cursor sorts the `(time, value)` tuples by time in ascending or descending order.

For example, a query that evaluates one field for 1,000 series over 3 shards constructs a minimum of 3,000 cursors (1,000 per shard).

> ### Understanding auxiliary fields

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Auxiliary fields
```
